A database model is a type of data model that determines the logical structure of a database and fundamentally 
determines in which manner data can be stored, organized, and manipulated. The most popular example of a database
model is the relational model, which uses a table-based format.

The network model

The network model is a database model conceived as a flexible way of representing objects and their relationships. 
Its distinguishing feature is that the schema, viewed as a graph in which object types are nodes and relationship 
types are arcs, is not restricted to being a hierarchy or lattice.

While the hierarchical database model structures data as a tree of records, with each record having one parent record 
and many children, the network model allows each record to have multiple parent and child records, forming a generalized
graph structure. This property applies at two levels: the schema is a generalized graph of record types connected by 
relationship types (called "set types" in CODASYL), and the database itself is a generalized graph of record occurrences
connected by relationships (CODASYL "sets"). Cycles are permitted at both levels. The chief argument in favour of the network
model, in comparison to the hierarchic model, was that it allowed a more natural modeling of relationships between entities. 
Although the model was widely implemented and used, it failed to become dominant for two main reasons. Firstly, IBM chose to
stick to the hierarchical model with semi-network extensions in their established products. Secondly, it was eventually 
displaced by the relational model, which offered a higher-level, more declarative interface. Until the early 1980s the 
performance benefits of the low-level navigational interfaces offered by hierarchical and network databases were persuasive
for many large-scale applications, but as hardware became faster, the extra productivity and flexibility of the relational model
led to the gradual obsolescence of the network model in corporate enterprise usage.